In this lecture, we are going to explore the final CRUD operation.
So far we have created read and updated data from our table.
The last type of operation you will perform is deletion.
Deleting data is considered a dangerous operation.
Once you've deleted a record from a table, it's gone forever.
Unless you have a backup.
Let's try creating a custom query.
If we're deleting the second entry in our database inside the form, let's add the delete from keyword.
The delete from keyword will instruct the database to delete a record from a specific table.
We can specify the table after this keyword.
Let's delete a record from the products table.
Once again, this query can be left as is by defaults.
All data will be deleted from a table, which isn't what we want without adding a condition.
We are entering dangerous territory.
In most cases we should add a condition with the WHERE keyword.
Let's delete a record if it's ID equals to.
Next, let's run the query.
The query will inform us that a record has been deleted.
We can view the products table to verify the deletion.
Upon viewing a table, the second record is missing.
Once again, the leading data can be a dangerous task.
SQL does not provide an option for recovering deleted data.
Regular backups will help you avoid a disaster.
We've completed our training of SQL.
Truthfully, working with databases is a job of its own.
We've only touched the surface.
However, this knowledge will be enough for working with WordPress.
Additional topics will be covered as we progress through the course.
If you're interested in learning more, there are plenty of courses available for studying SQL.
However, it's not required to learn WordPress.
You will be able to pick up new features along the way.
Either way, WordPress does have functions for handling the most complicated queries.
You can avoid writing SQL code by using WordPress before ending this lecture.
Let's delete our table head on over to the query page on this page type in the following command drop
table products.
I'm omitting the semicolon.
The semicolon is entirely optional.
It's only required if you plan on writing multiple queries.
The drop table keyword will delete a table from a database.
This table was, for example, purposes it's not required to keep it around.
Let's execute the query.
After doing so, the tables should be gone from the list.
Perfect.
Let's start getting back into WordPress.